# Day 5
### 21 July, 2018

#### Matplotlib
1. Figure size and DPI  
  * figsize is a tuple of the width and height of the figure in inches.  
  * dpi is the dots-per-inch (pixel per inch).  
  ```
  fig = plt.figure(figsize=(8,4), dpi=100)
  ```

  You can use the same for subplots as well.
  ```
  fig, axes = plt.subplots(nrows=2, ncols=1, figsize=(8,2))
  ```

2. Saving figures to png, jpeg, svg, etc.  
  ```
  fig.savefig('filename.extension')
  ```

3. Legends, labels and titles  
  You can use the label="label text" keyword argument when plots or other objects are added to the figure, and then using the legend method without arguments to add the legend to the figure:
  ```
  fig = plt.figure()

  ax = fig.add_axes([0,0,1,1])

  ax.plot(x, x**2, label="x**2")
  ax.plot(x, x**3, label="x**3")
  ax.legend()
  ```

4. Setting colors, linewidths, linetypes  
  ```
  ax.plot(x, y,
    color='',
    linewidth/lw='',
    linestyle/ls='', # possible linestype options ‘-‘, ‘–’, ‘-.’, ‘:’, ‘steps’
    alpha='', #transparency
    marker='' # possible marker symbols: marker = '+', 'o', '*', 's', ',', '.', '1', '2', '3', '4', ...
    markersize='',
    markerfacecolor='',
    markeredgewidth='',
    markeredgecolor=''
  )
  ```

5. Plot Range  
  We can configure the ranges of the axes using the ```set_ylim``` and ```set_xlim``` methods in the axis object, or ```axis('tight')``` for automatically getting "tightly fitted" axes ranges.

---

#### Seaborn
1. Distribution Plots
  * distplot  
  The distplot shows the distribution of a univariate set of observations. A histogram shows the frequency of each bin/interval.
  ```
  sns.distplot(a, bins=None, hist=True, kde=True, rug=False, ...)
  ```

  * jointplot  
  jointplot() allows you to basically match up two distplots for bivariate data.
  ```
  sns.jointplot(x, y, data=None, kind='scatter', ...)
  ```

  * pairplot  
  pairplot will plot pairwise relationships across an entire dataframe (for the numerical columns) and supports a color hue argument (for categorical columns)
  ```
  sns.pairplot(data, hue=None, palette=None, ...)
  ```

  * rugplot  
  rugplots are actually a very simple concept, they just draw a dash mark for every point on a univariate distribution.

  * kdeplot  
  kdeplots are Kernel Density Estimation plots. These KDE plots replace every single observation with a Gaussian (Normal) distribution centered around that value.

2. Categorical Data Plots
  * __barplot__ is a general plot that allows you to aggregate the categorical data based off some estimator function, by default the *mean*.  
  ```
  sns.barplot(x=None, y=None, data=None,estimator=<function mean at 0x103ae0268>, ...)
  ```
  * __countplot__ is essentially the same as barplot except the estimator is explicitly counting the number of occurrences. Which is why we only pass the x value

  * __boxplot__ (or box-and-whisker plot) shows the distribution of quantitative data in a way that facilitates comparisons between variables or across levels of a categorical variable. The box shows the quartiles of the dataset while the whiskers extend to show the rest of the distribution, except for points that are determined to be “outliers” using a method that is a function of the inter-quartile range.

  * __violinplot__ plays a similar role as a box and whisker plot. It shows the distribution of quantitative data across several levels of one (or more) categorical variables such that those distributions can be compared. Unlike a box plot, in which all of the plot components correspond to actual datapoints, the violin plot features a kernel density estimation of the underlying distribution.

  * __stripplot__ will draw a scatterplot where one variable is categorical. A strip plot can be drawn on its own, but it is also a good complement to a box or violin plot in cases where you want to show all observations along with some representation of the underlying distribution.

  * __swarmplot__ is similar to stripplot(), but the points are adjusted (only along the categorical axis) so that they don’t overlap. This gives a better representation of the distribution of values, although it does not scale as well to large numbers of observations (both in terms of the ability to show all the points and in terms of the computation needed to arrange them).

  * __factorplot__ is the most general form of a categorical plot. It can take in a kind parameter to adjust the plot type.